---
layout: default
chapitre: Présentation de kotlin
order: 1.2
---


## Créer et utiliser des variables en Kotlin

Excellent work! You learned about variables in Kotlin, why variables are useful in programming, and how to create, update, and use them. You experimented with different basic data types in Kotlin, including the Int, Double, String, and Boolean data types. You also learned about the difference between the val and var keywords.

All of these concepts are critical building blocks on your journey to become a developer.

See you in the next codelab!

Summary
A variable is a container for a single piece of data.
You must declare a variable first before you use it.
Use the val keyword to define a variable that is read-only where the value cannot change once it's been assigned.
Use the var keyword to define a variable that is mutable or changeable.
In Kotlin, it's preferred to use val over var when possible.
To declare a variable, start with the val or var keyword. Then specify the variable name, data type, and initial value. For example: val count: Int = 2.
With type inference, omit the data type in the variable declaration if an initial value is provided.
Some common basic Kotlin data types include: Int, String, Boolean, Float, and Double.
Use the assignment operator (=) to assign a value to a variable either during declaration of the variable or updating the variable.
You can only update a variable that has been declared as a mutable variable (with var).
Use the increment operator (++) or decrement operator (--) to increase or decrease the value of an integer variable by 1, respectively.
Use the + symbol to concatenate strings together. You can also concatenate variables of other data types like Int and Boolean to Strings.

| Kotlin data type | What kind of data it can contain | Example literal values |
|------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------|
| String           | Text                             | "Add contact", "Search", "Sign in" |
| Int              | Integer number                   | 32, 1293490, -59281 |
| Double           | Decimal number                   | 2.0, 501.0292, -31723.99999 |
| Float            | Decimal number (less precise than Double). Ends with f or F. | 5.0f, -1630.209f, 1.2940278F |
| Boolean          | true or false                    | true, false |


```java
fun main() {
    val trip1: Double = 3.20
    val trip2: Double = 4.10
    val trip3: Double = 1.72
    val totalTripLength: Double = 0.0
    println("$totalTripLength miles left to destination")
}
```
